Now, let's look at the six mandatory functions of an ERC-20 token contract.
So, we have six functions right here, totalSupply, balanceOf, transfer,
transferForm, approve and allowance and
we also have two events that we will also talk about in this video.
So, let's talk about totalSupply, the very first function.
Right, there's ERC function,
totalSupply, public constant returns uint.
totalSupply equals the sum of all balances,
that means, the total amount of tokens available.
When you initially create a token contract,
you start with providing a total supply,
which means that this is the maximum supply of tokens
that can circulate between various addresses.
When tokens are transferred from one account to another account,
the token contract will update the balance of the two accounts.
Just some extra details about this function.
It is possible to change this total supply by two ways.
Either by minting new tokens,
which means creating new tokens or it can
also burn tokens which means that will decrease the supply of tokens.
We can also burn tokens by sending them to an address zero.
Now, this will not change the total number of tokens,
it will just make those tokens unavailable.
The next function we're going to talk about is a balanceOf function.
It takes an an address,
public constant returns a balanced.
The balanceOf function provide the number of tokens held by a given address.
The function accepts an address as a parameter.
Now, since you see that this function is public,
the balance of any address is viewable by anyone.
Remember, we learned about mapping just about a few lectures back.
This is what is used by a token contract to implement the balance of addresses.
We will see that implementation soon.
It just uses a mapping to store balances of all addresses.
The next function we have here is a transfer function.
Takes any new to address,
number of tokens and then returns success, true or false.
So, the transfer function lets the owner of the contract
sent a given amount of tokens to another address,
just like a conventional cryptocurrency transaction.
Note, that there are no checks made on the recipient address.
So, it is important on the side of the sender to ensure that the recipient is valid,
otherwise, you can lose your tokens.
It has two input parameters.
The first is the address to transfer the tokens and then the second
is the number of tokens or the amount of tokens and then return,
it returns a true or false status.
The next function we have transferFrom function.
Little bit complicated.
I'm going to explain you really good so
listen to this if you really want to recap and listening again.
Definitely do that. So, the transferFrom function allows a smart contract to
automate the transfer process and send a given amount of tokens on behalf of the owner.
Let me explain it. Now, you might ask what is
the difference between transfer and transferFrom functions.
Let's consider transferring money to pay a bill.
Now, one way is to send money manually,
by taking the time to write a check and mailing it yourselves to pay the bill.
This is like using transfer.
So, you are doing the money transfer process yourself without the help another party.
Another way would be that you could set up an automatic bill pay with your bank.
This is like using transferFrom function.
Your bank sends the money to pay off the bill on your behalf automatically.
With this function, a contract can send a certain amount of
tokens to another address on your behalf without your intervention.
So, you approve another contract to use money on your behalf.
Now, if you see, this function transferFrom,
it takes three input parameters.
The from address, the to address,
and the amount of tokens and returns a success of true or false.
Now, important thing to understand here is that the approve and the transferFrom,
if you look at the approve, we will talk about that in
little bit more detail in just a minute.
Approve and the transferFrom function are
two functions that work using a two-step process.
In the first step, a token holder gives another address of
a smart contract approval to transfer up to certain amount of tokens known as allowance.
Now, the token holder uses approve to approve this information.
In the second step, the smart contract who has been approved can take up
to the allowed number of tokens from its allowance and use the transferFrom function.
Now, all of these functions will get more
clearer as you start to implement these functions.
Remember, this is just an interface that is
asking us to make sure that all these functions are implemented.
It is our responsibility to implement them
once we have or we need to deploy a contract or a token.
Let's talk about the next function, function approve.
When calling this function,
the owner of the contract authorizes or approves
the given address to withdraw tokens from the owners address.
The next is the allowance function.
It takes into input parameters,
token owner and spender.
The allowance function provides the number of tokens allowed to
be transferred from a given address by another given address.
Note, that anyone can query any addresses
allowance as all data on the blockchain is public.
Allowance is mostly implemented by a mapping inside a mapping.
So, we have a mapping where the keys in address and
the value is a mapping of addresses to tokens.
We will see this in example very soon.
Then the last thing I wanted to talk about is the two events.
Now, ERC-20 defines two events that must
be triggered when the contract takes relevant actions.
The first event is a transfer event which should be emitted
when the contract transfers tokens from one address to another address.
We will see an example soon.
The second event is approval event would should be emitted when one address
approves another address for spending a specific amount of tokens.
Only then you have
this contract standards implemented when you have all these functions defined.
So, again, now these are just function declarations.
It is your responsibility to write and implement them in your contract.
Once you've done that,
this is when you are going to adhere to
ERC-20 standards and your token will be called ERC-20 tokens.